[Wiki Home](Home)

### About BallroomDJ 4

BallroomDJ&nbsp;4 (BDJ4) is a music player designed for laptops and
desktops (and some tablets).  It is designed to play music for an
entire evening without any intervention (so that the DJ can dance and
not babysit the computer).

BDJ4 provides the tools to organize the ballroom music by dance and
into song lists, sequences and automatic playlists. Though it is
designed for the needs of ballroom music, it can be used for any type
of music.

The original BallroomDJ was started in 2011.  At that time,
there were two commercial options available.  One was quite expensive,
and the other (which was being used locally in several ballrooms, and
which I had a small familiarity with) had a terrible user interface.

I decided that if I was ever going to do ballroom DJ work that I
wanted something better, and I set out to write a new program, and
BallroomDJ was started and grew for the next 10 years.

Around 2021 I determined that the programming language used for
BallroomDJ 3, Tcl/Tk, was no longer a viable option in which to
continue.  And to ensure the long term existence of a ballroom music
player, the programming language and tools used needed to change.

BallroomDJ 4 (BDJ4) is a complete rewrite designed to replace
BallroomDJ 3.  Work started on BDJ4 in December of 2021.

BDJ4 is not an upgrade to BallroomDJ, but rather a separate
installation with its own database and configuration files.  A
conversion process can be used during installation to convert the
BallroomDJ&nbsp;3 data files and database to files that can be used by
BDJ4.

Development Team:

* Brad Lanam
<br>Architect, Programmer, UI/UX Designer, Tools,
Testing, Quality Assurance, Documentation, Website Management, System
Administration

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2024-07-19 08:26:27; BDJ4 version 4.11.0)_
