[Wiki Home](Home)

[TOC]

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_The player is the main interface used
for playback of songs._</span>

### Player

##### Player Display

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![player-display](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Player/player-display-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Player / Player Display**</span> </div>

The left side of the player display includes the player status, repeat
status, dance, artist and title display, time remaining to play, total
duration of the song, and the buttons to control the player.

The right side of the player display includes the speed, song position
and volume sliders.

The player status to the left of the dance / artist / title display
indicates the current status of the loaded song: playing, paused or
stopped.  If the repeat toggle is turned on, the repeat symbol will be
displayed.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![player-status-play](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Player/player-status-play-B.png)
![player-status-stop](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Player/player-status-stop-A.png)
![player-status-stop](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Player/player-status-pause-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Player / Player Status**</span> </div>

The time remaining display shows how many seconds are left to play in
the song.  The time played is displayed to the right of the position
slider.

##### Player Controls

___Fade___: The fade button will fade out the song using the queue's
configured fade out time and stop playing the song.  Any gap
configured for the queue will be applied, and then the next song in
the music queue will start playing.

___Play / Pause___:
(![b-pp](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Player/player-b-playpause-A.png))
Starts playing a song or pauses the song if it is playing.  If a song
is paused when it has already started the fade out, the pause at end
toggle is turned on, and the song will finish playing.

___Toggle Repeat___:
(![b-rep](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Player/player-b-repeat-A.png))
Toggles the repeat status.  The repeat symbol will display to the left
of the dance / artist / title display.  When repeat is on, the song
will not be removed from the player when it reaches the end and will
be re-played.

___Return to Beginning of Song___:
(![b-begin](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Player/player-b-beginsong-A.png))
Re-starts the song from the beginning.

___Next Song___:
(![b-nextsong](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Player/player-b-nextsong-A.png))
Immediately starts playing the next song in the queue.  There is no
fade out and no gap applied.  The next song button may be used when
the player is paused or stopped.

___Pause at End___: Turns on and off the pause at end toggle.  The
player will stop playing after the song finishes.

___Speed___: Adjusts the speed of the currently playing song. The
speed will reset when the next song starts playing.

___Position___: Displays the current position of the song.  The slider
can be adjusted to change the current position of the song.

___Volume___: Sets the playback volume.  <br>(See also
_Default&nbsp;Volume_ in [Configuration /
General](en-Configuration-General))

##### Music Queue Controls

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![player-music-q](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Player/player-music-q-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Player / Music Queue Controls**</span> </div>

##### Requests

##### Options Menu

##### Actions Menu

##### Marquee Menu

##### External Requests

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2022-12-16 15:22:56; BDJ4 version 4.0.0-beta)_
