[Wiki Home](Home)

[TOC]

### How To : Line Dances (Marquee Display)

Line dances present a unique problem.  During a dance event, you might
want to play a few line dances.  But for the next dance event, a
different selection of line dances is wanted.

Line dances also present a management issue.  You may not want to add
a new dance to the list of dances every time you add a new line dance.

If a song list is created manually
([Subjects&nbsp;/&nbsp;Song&nbsp;List](en-Subjects-Song%20List)), this
is not so much of a problem.  The DJ can pick and choose the line
dance to be played for the ballroom dance.

For an automatic playlist, it is more difficult. If each different
line dance was added as a separate dance in
[Configuration&nbsp;/&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;Dances](en-Configuration-Edit%20Dances),
and the automatic playlist had every line dance selected, BDJ4 would
try to choose one of each line dance, not just a few.

A sequenced playlist could select particular line dances, but again,
it is hard to change out which line dances are played.

##### Add Line Dance to the Available Dances

Instead of adding each line dance as a separate dance, a single line
dance entry is added to the list of dances in
[Configuration&nbsp;/&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;Dances](en-Configuration-Edit%20Dances).

For the purposes of this example, the line dance will just be named
_LD_ to keep it short.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![ld-edit-dance](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/HowTo/ld-edit-dance-C.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Configure / Edit Dances__</span> </div>

##### Setting up the Line Dances (Marquee Display)

For each line dance, select the dance in the
[Music&nbsp;Manager](en-Manage-Music%20Manager), and select the
__Song&nbsp;Editor__ tab.  Use the
[Song&nbsp;Editor](en-Manage-Song%20Editor) to set the dance to line
dance (_LD_ in this example), and set the _Marquee&nbsp;Display_ to
the name of the line dance.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![ld-dance-one](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/HowTo/ld-dance-one-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Manage / Song Editor__</span> </div>

##### Listing the Line Dances

In the [Music&nbsp;Manager](en-Manage-Music%20Manager), select line
dances in the dance drop-down (_LD_ in this example).  All of the line
dances will be listed.  The _Marquee&nbsp;Display_ will be listed next
to the dance (available starting with version 4.7.0).

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![ld-dance-list](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/HowTo/ld-dance-list-C.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Manage / Music Manager__</span> </div>

##### Adding Line Dances to an Automatic Playlist

Now the line dances can be added to the automatic or sequenced
playlist easily, and each time the playlist is used, there will be
a different selection of line dances.

In [Playlist&nbsp;Management](en-Management-Playlist&nbsp;Management),
load the automatic playlist to change.  Turn on the line dance (_LD_
in this example) and set the count to the number of dances you want.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![ld-auto-pl](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/HowTo/ld-auto-pl-B.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Manage / Music Manager__</span> </div>

##### Marquee

The _Marquee&nbsp;Display_ set for each line dance will be displayed
on the marquee instead of the dance.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![ld-marquee](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/HowTo/ld-marquee-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Marquee__</span> </div>

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2024-07-19 14:06:46; BDJ4 version 4.11.0)_
