[Wiki Home](Home)

[TOC]

### How To : Playing a Mixer

One common ballroom dance situation is playing a mixer during the
dance.  The mixer can be inserted directly into the playlist, but the
current music queue's configuration may not be appropriate for a mixer
(fade-out, gap, play announcements).

The example below outlines one method for playing a mixer.

##### Configuring a Music Queue for a Mixer

For the mixer music queue, in
__Configure&nbsp;/&nbsp;Player&nbsp;Queues__, configure a music queue
with the __Gap&nbsp;Between&nbsp;Songs__ set to 0.0, and a fast
fade-out time. Also make sure __Play&nbsp;Announcements__ is off.  For
this example the __Maximum&nbsp;Play&nbsp;Time__ is set to 1:30.  The
name of the music queue is set to _Mixer_.

Close the configuration window to save the configuration changes.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![mixer-conf-musicq-a](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/HowTo/mixer-conf-musicq-D.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Configure / Player Queues**</span> </div>

##### Creating an Automatic Playlist for a Mixer

In __Manage&nbsp;/&nbsp;Playlist&nbsp;Management__, select
__Edit&nbsp;/&nbsp;New&nbsp;Automatic&nbsp;Playlist__ from the menu.
Change the name of the playlist to _Waltz&nbsp;Mixer_.  Set
__Stop&nbsp;After__ to 4.  Set __Dance&nbsp;Rating__ to _Great_.
In the list of dances to the right, select _Waltz_, click on the
__Count__ for _Waltz_, and set the count to 1.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![mixer-conf-playlist-a](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/HowTo/mixer-conf-playlist-D.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Manage / Playlist Management**</span> </div>

Be aware that to use an automatic playlist, the dance rating for each
song must be set.

Note that the __Maximum&nbsp;Play&nbsp;Time__ and __Gap__ could be set
in the playlist instead of the music queue.

##### Playing the Mixer

In the __Player__, open the __Options__ menu, and turn on both
__Show&nbsp;Extra&nbsp;Queues__ and
__Switch&nbsp;Queue&nbsp;When&nbsp;Empty__.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![mixer-player-options-a](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/HowTo/mixer-player-options-D.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Player / Options**</span> </div>

Select the main music queue and use the __Queue&nbsp;Playlist__ button
to queue the playlist for the dance.  Select the _Mixer_ music queue
and use the __Queue&nbsp;Playlist__ button to queue the
_Waltz&nbsp;Mixer_ playlist that was created.

Use the __Play&nbsp;/&nbsp;Pause__
(![b-pp](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/player-b-playpause-A.png))
button to start the dance.

When you are ready to play the mixer, select the
__Pause&nbsp;at&nbsp;End__ button, select the _Mixer_ music queue, and
select the __Set&nbsp;Queue&nbsp;for&nbsp;Playback__ button.  When the
music stops playing, make the mixer announcement, then select the
__Play&nbsp;/&nbsp;Pause__
(![b-pp](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/player-b-playpause-A.png))
button to start the music playing.  When the mixer has finished,
playback will automatically switch back to the main music queue, and
playback will continue from the main music queue.

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2023-01-30 09:25:17; BDJ4 version 4.0.9-beta)_
