[Wiki Home](Home)

[TOC]

### How To : Running a Showcase

Running a showcase has its own requirements.  More control is needed
when the music plays and which song plays. Music may be supplied by
the artist, or may be a song chosen from the database.  The music may
be pre-cut to a particular length, or may need to be stopped after
some amount of time.

##### Configuring a Music Queue for a Showcase

For the purposes of this configuration example, it is assumed that the
some of the showcase music has already been cut to the appropriate
length.

For the showcase music queue, in
__Configure&nbsp;/&nbsp;Music&nbsp;Queues__, configure a music queue
with the __Gap&nbsp;Between&nbsp;Songs__ set to 0.0, and
__Fade&nbsp;Out&nbsp;Time__ set to 0.0. Make sure
__Play&nbsp;Announcements__ is off.  Turn
__Pause&nbsp;Each&nbsp;Song__ on.  The __Maximum&nbsp;Play&nbsp;Time__
is set to 6:00 minutes to allow the entire song to play. The name of
the music queue is set to _Showcase_.

Close the configuration window to save the configuration changes.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![showcase-conf-musicq-a](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/HowTo/showcase-conf-musicq-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Configure / Music Queues**</span> </div>

##### Running the Showcase

Start the __Player__, and in the __Options__ menu, set
__Show&nbsp;Extra&nbsp;Queues__ to on.
__Switch&nbsp;Queue&nbsp;When&nbsp;Empty__ should be off. Select the
___Showcase___ music queue, and select the
__Set&nbsp;Queue&nbsp;for&nbsp;Playback__ button.

<!-- re-used by subjects/music-queues -->

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![showcase-disp-option-a](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/musicq-disp-option-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Player / Options**</span> </div>

###### Playing a Song not in the Database

In the __Actions__ menu, select __Request&nbsp;External__.  A dialog
will open.  Use the file chooser button with the folder icon to select
the audio file to play.  Select the __Queue__ button to queue the song
for playback.

Use the __Play&nbsp;/&nbsp;Pause__
(![b-pp](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/player-b-playpause-A.png))
button to start playing the song.  The __Pause&nbsp;at&nbsp;End__
toggle will be turned on as __Pause&nbsp;Each&nbsp;Song__ is set on for
the music queue.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![showcase-req-ext-a](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/HowTo/showcase-req-ext-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Player / Actions / Request External**</span> </div>

###### Playing a Song in the Database

Select the ___Request___ tab, and choose the song to play.  Select the
__Queue__ button to add the song to the ___Showcase___ music queue.

Use the __Play&nbsp;/&nbsp;Pause__
(![b-pp](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/player-b-playpause-A.png))
button to start playing the song.

If required, you may need to select the __Fade__ button to stop
playing the song at the appropriate time.

###### Managing the Queue

The songs for the showcase may be queued ahead of time, it is not
necessary to queue them one by one.

In some cases, the participants might not be ready, and a different
song must be played.  For example, there is a Waltz ready to be
played, and instead a Tango will be played.  Move the Tango to the top
of the queue, then select the __Move&nbsp;Up__ button once more.
(![move-up](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/UpButton-B.png))
This will swap the Tango and the Waltz.  The music must be stopped in
order to swap the song at the top of the queue with the song that is
ready to be played.  The Tango will be ready to play, and the Waltz
will be put back into the music queue.

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2023-02-27 12:26:29; BDJ4 version 4.1.1-beta)_
