[Wiki Home](Home)

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_Audio identification uses third party
services to identify the song and retrieve the song information._</span>

[TOC]

### Manage : Audio Identification

##### Display Columns

The fields displayed in audio identification can be set in
[Display&nbsp;Settings](en-Configuration-Display%20Settings).  The
fields displayed in the match list and the fields displayed in the
current / selected display can be modified in
[Display&nbsp;Settings](en-Configuration-Display%20Settings) using the
_Audio&nbsp;ID&nbsp;Match&nbsp;List_ and _Audio&nbsp;ID_ selections.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![audioid](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/audioid-B.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Manage / Audio Identification__</span> </div>

##### Traversing the Song Listing

Audio identification works in conjunction with the
[Music&nbsp;Manager](en-Management-Music%20Manager).  The __First__,
__Next__ and __Previous__ buttons traverse the songs selected in the
[Music&nbsp;Manager](en-Management-Music%20Manager). See the
[Music&nbsp;Manager](en-Management-Music%20Manager) wiki page for
details.

##### Match List

When the audio identification tab is selected, a query is sent to
identify the song.  This may take several seconds to finish.  During
this time, the _Please&nbsp;Wait..._ message is displayed in the
status area at the upper right of the screen.

The first row in the match list is the current song data so that a
comparison can be made against the other matches that are returned.
This row will remain in position as the list is scrolled.

Each of the other rows in the match list will have a score assigned
indicating how close of a match the song is to the original.

##### Current and Selected Song Data

Below the match list, the current and selected song data is displayed.
The left column is always the current data for the song. The right
column is the data from the selected row in the match list.

Select a row in the match list to view the data for that match.

After selecting the row in the match list that you want to use, select
either the current song data or the selected song data that you want to use.
Then select the __Save__ button in the upper right to save the changes
to the database.

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2024-07-19 08:03:03; BDJ4 version 4.11.0)_
