[Wiki Home](Home)

### Management : Edit Song Lists

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_A song list is a
playlist with an exact sequence of songs._</span>

In all cases, the song list is automatically saved.

###### Easy Song List Editor

This is the default layout.  The left side of the window has the song
list, and the right side has the song selection.  Due to the side by
side layout, less information can be displayed about each song.  The
columns displayed can be changed in
[Display&nbsp;Settings](en-Configuration-Display%20Settings) using the
_Easy&nbsp;Song&nbsp;List_ and _Easy%20Song%20Selection_ selections.

The left arrow button (![Left
Arrow](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/LeftButton-A.png))
in-between the two listings will add the current song selection to the
song list.  Multiple songs may be selected in the song selection list
by holding down the _Control_ key when clicking on each song.

###### Song List Editor

An alternate layout is available by turning off the easy song list
editor in the _Options_ menu.  The song list and the song selection
are displayed in separate tabs.  This layout allows more information
about each song to be displayed. The columns displayed can be changed
in [Display&nbsp;Settings](en-Configuration-Display%20Settings) using the
_Song&nbsp;List_ and _Song%20Selection_ selections.

In the song selection tab, select the songs to add to the song list.
Multiple songs may be selected in the song selection list by holding
down the _Control_ key when clicking on each song.  Use the _Select_
button at the top of the listing to add the songs to the song list.

###### Filtering the Song Selection

The song selection list can be filtered so that you can find the dance
and type of song easily.

Use the _Filters_ button to display the filter dialog.  In this
dialog, select the filters you want activated and select _Apply_.  The
song selection listing will be updated.  The filter dialog will stay
open so it can be used again.  The filters displayed can be adjusted
in [Filter&nbsp;Display](en-Configuration-Filter%20Display).

Above the song selection listing, the dance drop-down may be used to
quickly change which dance is displayed in the song selection listing.
Any other filters that have been selected in the filter dialog remain
active.  Use the _Reset_ button in the filter dialog to clear all song
selection filters.

The song selection listing will display a mark before each song that
is already in the song list.

###### Naming the Song List

At the top of the song list, there is an entry box with the song list
name.  This defaults to _New&nbsp;Song&nbsp;List_.  Click in the entry
box and change the name of the song list.

If you forget to change the name, the song list will be saved as
_New&nbsp;Song&nbsp;List_.

###### Modifying the Song List

At the top of the song list, the move-to-top button
(![move-to-top](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/MoveToTopButton-A.png))
will move the currently selected song to the top.  The move up and
move down buttons
(![move-up](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/UpButton-A.png),
![move-down](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/DownButton-A.png))
will move the song up and down.  The remove button
(![remove](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/RemoveSongButton-A.png))
will remove the selection from the song list.

###### Reviewing a Song

While in the song list or the song selection, select the _Play_ button
above the listing to play the currently selected song.

###### Editing a Song

While in the song list or the song selection, select the edit button
(![edit](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/EditButton-A.png))
to edit a song.  This will open the
[Song&nbsp;Editor](en-Management-Song%20Editor) with the currently
selected song.  Be sure to use the _Save_ button while in the song
editor.

###### The Edit Menu

An existing song list can be loaded by selecting
_Edit_&nbsp;/&nbsp;_Load_ from the menu.  A dialog will open allowing
selection of an existing song list.

_Edit_&nbsp;/&nbsp;_Start&nbsp;New&nbsp;Song&nbsp;List_ will clean
out any loaded song list and reset the name to
_New&nbsp;Song&nbsp;List_.

_Edit_&nbsp;/&nbsp;_Create&nbsp;Copy_ will create a copy of the
currently loaded song list and create a new name with _Copy&nbsp;of_
prefixed to the old name.

_Edit_&nbsp;/&nbsp;_Delete_ will remove the currently loaded song list
from your storage device and start a new song list.

###### The Actions Menu



[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2022-12-13 08:13:25; BDJ4 version 4.0.0-beta)_
