[Wiki Home](Home)

[TOC]

### Management : Music Manager

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_The music manager works in conjunction
with the song editor to manage songs._</span>

The music manager displays a listing of songs.  Like the other song
selection listings, the songs can be filtered to display the song
selections you want to work with.

Once the music manager listing has been filtered, the song editor can
traverse through the songs listed in the music manager.

There are some important differences from song selection.

##### Filter Dialog

The filter dialog has an additional drop-down where a playlist may be
selected (_At this time, only song lists are supported.  This may
change in the future._).  When a playlist is selected, the other
filters are disabled, and the songs from the playlist are listed.

The song editor can then be used to edit the songs from the selected
playlist.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![mm-filters](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/mm-filters-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Management / Music Manager / Filters**</span> </div>

##### Song Selection and the Song Editor

When a song is selected in
[Edit&nbsp;Song&nbsp;Lists](en-Management-Edit%20Song%20Lists), or the
edit button is used, the music manager will automatically set the
filter to use the loaded playlist.  The filter dialog will show the
currently selected playlist.

This makes it easy to edit the songs in the song list.  Simply select
the edit button in
[Edit&nbsp;Song&nbsp;Lists](en-Management-Edit%20Song%20Lists) to
switch to the song editor.  Then the _Next_ and _Previous_ buttons
will traverse the songs in the song list, as the music manager's
filter has been set to use the loaded playlist.

When a song is selected in the song selection tab, or the edit button
is used in the song selection tab, the music manager will
automatically use the filters set in song selection. The song editor
can then be used to traverse the songs that have been selected.

If you have a listing loaded in the music manager, multiple songs may
be selected (using control-click).  When multiple songs are selected
in the music manager, the song editor will traverse the selected
songs, and not the entire listing.

##### Actions Menu

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![mm-actions-menu](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/mm-actions-menu-C.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Management / Music Manager / Actions Menu**</span> </div>

_Mark as Same Song_ will mark the selected songs as the same song.

_Clear Same Song Mark_ will clear the same song markers from the
selected songs.

##### Same Song Marks

Same song marks can be used to prevent the automatic or sequence song
selection from choosing songs that are the same but played by
different artists.

For example, if you have a copy of ___Sway___ by ___Michael Bubl√©___
and also a copy of ___Sway___ by ___Pussy Cat Dolls___, these can be
marked as the same song.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![mm-same-song](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/mm-same-song-B.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Management / Music Manager / Same Song Marks**</span> </div>

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2022-12-15 08:51:32; BDJ4 version 4.0.0-beta)_
