[Wiki Home](Home)

[TOC]

### Management : Playlist Management

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_Playlist management configures playlist
controls, per dance controls, and song selection filters for automatic
and sequenced playlists._</span>

In all cases, the playlist is automatically saved.

Automatic playlists are created using playlist management.

##### Playlist Controls

The playlist controls for _Maximum&nbsp;Play&nbsp;Time_, _Stop&nbsp;At_ time,
_Stop&nbsp;After_ count, _Gap_ and _Play&nbsp;Announcements_ are
available for all playlist types.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![plmgmt-controls](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/plmgmt-controls-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Management / Playlist Management / Playlist Controls**</span> </div>

_Maximum&nbsp;Play&nbsp;Time_ sets the maximum duration of a song for
this playlist.  The maximum play time set here will override the
player per-queue _Maximum&nbsp;Play&nbsp;Time_ setting.
<br>(See also [Player&nbsp;Queues](en-Configuration-Player%20Queues)).

_Stop&nbsp;At_ sets the time when the playlist will stop. The stop at
time set here will override the player per-queue _Stop&nbsp;At_
setting.
<br>(See also [Player&nbsp;Queues](en-Configuration-Player%20Queues)).

_Stop&nbsp;After_ configures how many songs will play from this
playlist.

If _Play&nbsp;Announcements_ is enabled, announcements will be played
for each song for this playlist.
<br>(See also [Player&nbsp;Queues](en-Configuration-Player%20Queues),
[Edit&nbsp;Dances](en-Configuration-Edit%20Dances)).

##### Song Selection Filters

The song selection filters are used for automatic and sequenced
playlists.  The filters limit which songs can be played.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![plmgmt-ss](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/plmgmt-ss-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Management / Playlist Management / Song Selection**</span> </div>

_Dance&nbsp;Rating_ sets the minimum rating for a song to be chosen.
Any song with a rating equal to or better than the dance rating set
here may be played.
<br>(See also [Edit&nbsp;Ratings](en-Configuration-Edit%20Ratings))

_Low&nbsp;Dance&nbsp;Level_ sets the lowest dance level.  Any song
with a dance level equal to or higher than the dance level set here
may be played.
<br>(See also [Edit&nbsp;Levels](en-Configuration-Edit%20Levels))

_High&nbsp;Dance&nbsp;Level_ sets the highest dance level.  Any song
with a dance level equal to or lower than the dance level set here may
be played.
<br>(See also [Edit&nbsp;Levels](en-Configuration-Edit%20Levels))

If a song has a keyword set, and the keyword is in the
_Allowed&nbsp;Keywords_ list, then the song may be played.  If a song
has a keyword set and the keyword is not in the
_Allowed&nbsp;Keywords_ list, the song will not be played.

In addition, the playable status is always used for song selection. If
the song's status does not have the _Play?_ flag set, the song will
not be played.
<br>(See also [Edit&nbsp;Status](en-Configuration-Edit%20Status))

##### Per Dance Playlist Controls

The per dance playlist controls are different for song lists,
sequenced playlists and automatic playlists.

Song lists can only have the maximum play time configured per dance.

The maximum play time, low BPM and high BPM can be configured per
dance for automatic and sequenced playlists.

If the maximum play time is set for a particular dance, it will
override the player per-queue maximum play time setting and the
playlist maximum play time setting.

For automatic playlists, the dances that may be played are selected
here, and the relative count for each dance is also set here.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![plmgmt-dance-controls](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/plmgmt-dance-controls-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Management / Playlist Management / Dance Controls (automatic)**</span> </div>

##### Naming the Playlist

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![plmgmt-name-entry](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/plmgmt-name-entry-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Management / Playlist Management / Playlist Name**</span> </div>

At the top of the window, there is an entry box with the playlist
name.  This defaults to _New&nbsp;Playlist_.  Click in the entry
box and change the name of the playlist.  If there is a song list or
sequence associated with the playlist, it will also be renamed.

If you forget to change the name, the song list will be saved as
_New&nbsp;Playlist_.

##### Edit Menu

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![plmgmt-edit-menu](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/plmgmt-edit-menu-B.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Management / Playlist Management / Edit Menu**</span> </div>

An existing playlist can be loaded by selecting
_Edit_&nbsp;/&nbsp;_Load_ from the menu.  A dialog will open allowing
selection of an existing playlist.

_Edit_&nbsp;/&nbsp;_New&nbsp;Automatic&nbsp;Playlist_ will clean out
any loaded playlist and reset the name to _New&nbsp;Playlist_.  The
playlist type will be set to _Automatic_.

_Edit_&nbsp;/&nbsp;_Create&nbsp;Copy_ will create a copy of the
currently loaded playlist and create a new name with _Copy&nbsp;of_
prefixed to the old name. If there is a song list or sequence
associated with the playlist, it will also be copied.

_Edit_&nbsp;/&nbsp;_Delete_ will delete the currently loaded playlist
from your storage device and start a new automatic playlist.

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2022-12-15 11:53:45; BDJ4 version 4.0.0-beta)_
