[Wiki Home](Home)

[TOC]

### Management : Song Editor

<span style="color:#4559bf;">The song editor is used to update
song information and to adjust playback settings for the song._</span>

##### Display Columns

The fields displayed in the song editor can be set in
[Display&nbsp;Settings](en-Configuration-Display%20Settings). Up to
three display columns may be configured. A full list of fields is at
the bottom of this wiki page.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![se](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/se-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Management / Song Editor**</span> </div>

##### Traversing the Song Listing

The song editor works in conjunction with the
[Music&nbsp;Manager](en-Management-Music%20Manager).  The _First_,
_Next_ and _Previous_ buttons traverse the songs selected in the
[Music&nbsp;Manager](en-Management-Music%20Manager). See the
[Music&nbsp;Manager](en-Management-Music%20Manager) wiki page for
details.

##### File Display

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![se-file-disp](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/se-file-disp-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Management / Song Editor / File Display**</span> </div>

If the audio file has a MusicBrainz recording ID tag set, the
MusicBrainz logo will be displayed.

If the audio file has been modified from the original (via normalized
audio, speed adjustments, song start/end adjustments or trimmed
silence), a __*__ will be displayed.

The copy button
(![copy](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/CopyButton-A.png))
may be used to copy the filename to the clipboard.

The filename is displayed.  The music folder set in
[Configuration&nbsp;/&nbsp;General](en-Configuration-General) is not
displayed as part of the filename.

##### Change Bars

When a field in the song editor is modified. A green bar is displayed
before the field's label.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![se-change-bar](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/se-change-bar-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Management / Song Editor / Change Bars**</span> </div>

##### Saving the Changes

The changes made in the song editor are not automatically saved.  Use
the _Save_ button in the upper right to save the changes.

If you want to reset the changes you have made, simply use _Next_ or
_Previous_ to switch to a different song, then switch back.

##### Actions Menu

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![se-actions](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/se-actions-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Management / Song Editor / Actions Menu**</span> </div>

___BPM___ starts the BPM Counter.

___Actions___&nbsp;/&nbsp;___Edit&nbsp;All___ starts the batch edit
process.  __This function is not yet implemented__.

___Actions___&nbsp;/&nbsp;___Apply&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;All___ finalizes the
batch edit process. The changes made to the current song will be made
to the rest of the selected songs.  __This function is not yet
implemented__.

___Actions___&nbsp;/&nbsp;___Cancel&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;All___ cancels the
batch edit process. The changes made to the current song will be
reverted. __This function is not yet implemented__.

##### Using the BPM Counter

Before using the BPM Counter, the BPM setting should be added to the
song editor using
[Display&nbsp;Settings](en-Configuration-Display%20Settings).

After selecting the song to edit in the song editor, use the _Play_
button to play the song.  Then select the _BPM_ menu selection in the
_Actions_ menu.  The BPM Counter will start.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![se-bpm-counter](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/se-bpm-counter-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Management / Song Editor / BPM Counter**</span> </div>

Click in the blue box in time with the beat.  Once the BPM has
stabilized, select the _Save_ button.  To restart the count, select
the _Reset_ button.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![se-bpm-saved](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/se-bpm-saved-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Management / Song Editor / BPM**</span> </div>

If the BPM setting in
[Configuration&nbsp;/&nbsp;General](en-Configuration-General) is set to MPM
(measures per minute), BDJ4 will select the MPM setting in the BPM
Counter that matches the dance's time signature.

##### Song Editor Fields

The complete list of fields that can be edited or displayed in the
song editor is:

 Field|Tag Type|Display
 -----|--------|-------
 Album|Audio|
 Album Artist|Audio|
 Artist|Audio|
 BPM|Audio|
 Composer|Audio|
 Conductor|Audio|
 Dance|BDJ4|
 Dance Level|BDJ4|
 Dance Rating|BDJ4|
 Date|Audio|
 Date Added|BDJ4|Display Only
 Disc|Audio|
 Duration||Display Only
 Favorite|BDJ4|
 Genre|Audio|
 Keyword|BDJ4|
 Marquee Display|BDJ4|
 Notes|BDJ4|
 Song End|BDJ4|
 Song Start|BDJ4|
 Speed Adjustment|BDJ4|
 Status|BDJ4|
 Tags|BDJ4|
 Title|Audio|
 Track|Audio|
 Volume Adjustment|BDJ4|

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2023-01-24 09:56:06; BDJ4 version 4.0.9-beta)_
