[Wiki Home](Home)

### Management : Update Database

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_Update database is used to manage the
database of songs._</span>

Update Database has several possible actions. Select the _Action_ you
want to use, then select the _Start_ button to start processing.  The
_Stop_ button will activate, and can be used to stop processing at any
time.  When processing is finished, a _Complete_ message will be
displayed in the processing status box.

___Check for New___: Used to check for new audio files and add them to
the database.  Any existing entries in the database are not changed.

___Reorganize___: Re-organizes the audio files according to the
organization configuration.  __This feature is not yet implemented.__

___Update from Audio File Tags___: The BDJ4 database is updated from the
information read from the audio file tags.  This action is used when
a tagging program has been used to update the audio file tags.

___Write Tags to Audio Files___: Uses the information in the BDJ4
database to update the audio file tags in the audio files. The
_Write&nbsp;Audio&nbsp;File&nbsp;Tags_ configuration setting must be
set.

___Update from iTunes___: The BDJ4 database is updated from the
information read from the iTunes database. If iTunes is not
configured, the start button will be disabled.
<br>See: [Configuration&nbsp;/&nbsp;iTunes](en-Configuration-iTunes)

___Rebuild Database___: Rebuilds the database completely.  Any
information stored in the database that is not stored in the audio
file tags will be lost.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![UpdateDB](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/UpdateDB-B.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Management / Update Database**</span> </div>

The __Music Folder__ will normally be set to the configured music
folder.  If you want to add an additional music folder to the database
that is not within the configured music folder, use the chooser button
with the folder icon to select the additional music folder.  Set the
_Action_ to _Check&nbsp;for&nbsp;New_.  Do not use
_Rebuild&nbsp;Database_ to add an additional music folder.

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2023-01-05 13:51:03; BDJ4 version 4.0.5-beta)_
