[Wiki Home](Home)

[TOC]

### Getting Started

#### Configuring BDJ4

Start BDJ4.  The window that displays is the _Starter_ window. Select
the __Configure__ button.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![Starter](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Install/gs-starter-C.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Starter__</span> </div>

##### Locale

The Nederlands (Dutch) translation is in excellent shape.  The Русский
(Russian) translation is ok.

The other translations are machine generated and are of very low
quality. If the translation for your locale is poor, you may want to
select _English&nbsp;(GB)_ or _English&nbsp;(US)_ in the
__Configure&nbsp;/&nbsp;Locale__ selection.

After selecting a locale, exit and restart BDJ4 to display the
selected language.

If you can help improve a translation, contact support using on of the
methods listed in [Getting&nbsp;Help](en-Getting%20Help).

##### Set the location of the music folder

The first step is to configure the location of your music folder.

In the configuration window, the _General_ section will be displayed.
In the _General_ section, the first item is the __Music&nbsp;Folder__.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![Configure / General / Music Folder](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Install/gs-config-folder-C.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Configure / General / Music Folder__</span> </div>

Use the directory chooser button with the folder icon on the far right
to choose the location of your music folder.

Leave the configuration window open.

##### Choose how your music is organized

The organization is important so that BDJ4 can determine information
about your songs when the database is built.  Most importantly, the
dance associated with each song, which is not usually stored in the
audio file tags.

In the configuration window, select the __Organization__ section from
the list on the left side of the window.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![gs-config-org](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Install/gs-config-org-C.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Configure / Organization__</span> </div>

In the _Organization_ section, the default organization is
_Dance/Title_.  This is a common organization method that many people
use where each dance is in a separate folder.

If you have iTunes installed, the organization path will be set to
_Album&nbsp;Artist/Album/Disc&nbsp;-&nbsp;Track0&nbsp;Title_.

Select the organization method you use for your songs in the
__Organization&nbsp;Path__ drop-down.

If your audio files have the dance stored in the genre audio tag, turn
on the __Database&nbsp;Loads&nbsp;Dance&nbsp;from&nbsp;Genre__ switch.

If the organization path you need is not present, contact support
using one of the methods in [Getting&nbsp;Help](en-Getting%20Help).
Many different organization paths are supported, but not all are
listed in the drop-down.

Leave the configuration window open.

##### Check the configured dances

It is best to make sure all the dances that you use are set up
correctly before adding songs to the database.

In the configuration window, select __Edit&nbsp;Dances__ from the list
in the left side of the window.

Check that all the dances that you use are listed.  Add any dances you
use that are missing from the list.  Also check to make sure the
spelling of each dance matches what you use.  For example, _Waltz_ may
need to be changed to _Slow&nbsp;Waltz_.  Any dances that you do not
use may be deleted.
<br>__References:__
<br>[Configure&nbsp;/&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;Dances](en-Configuration-Edit%20Dances)

Close the configuration window.

<!-- appears in configuration/edit dances.txt also -->

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![edit-dances](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Configuration/EditDances-G.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Configure / Edit Dances__</span> </div>

#### Creating the database for the first time

The BDJ4 database contains the information about your songs.  The
information in the database must be populated the first time.

In the _Starter_ window, select the __Manage__ button.  This will open
the management user interface.  Select the __Update&nbsp;Database__
section in the left side of the management window.

Use the plus and minus buttons to change __Action__ to
_Rebuild&nbsp;Database_.  Select the __Start__ button.  Depending on how
many songs you have, the database rebuild may take a long time.  Wait
for the database rebuild to finish.  A _Complete_ message will be
displayed when it is done.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![gs-update-db](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Install/gs-update-db-C.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Manage / Update Database__</span> </div>

Leave the management window open.

#### Check the dance for each song

Select __Music&nbsp;Manager__ in the left side of the management
window. Scroll through the list of songs and check to make sure the
dance is set for each song.  It is OK if some songs are left without
an assigned dance, but most should have a dance set.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![gs-mm](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Install/gs-mm-D.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Manage / Music Manager__</span> </div>

If the dance is not set, select the song in the listing, then select
the _Song&nbsp;Editor_ tab.  Use the dance drop-down selection and
select the dance for the song.  Select the __Save__ button in the upper
right of the _Song&nbsp;Editor_ tab.  Switch back to the
_Music&nbsp;Manager_ tab and check for other songs that need to have
the dance set.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![gs-se](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Install/gs-se-C.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Manage / Song Editor__</span> </div>

Leave the management window open.

#### Create an example playlist

Select __Edit&nbsp;Song&nbsp;Lists__ in the left side of the
management window.  On the right side of the window below the player
is a list of your songs.  Select a song in the right side of the
window.  Select the left arrow button
(![left-arrow](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/LeftButton-B.png))
in the middle of the lower section.  This will add the song you
selected to the song list that is being created.

Above the song list is an entry box with the name
_New&nbsp;Song&nbsp;List_ in it.  Click in the box and change the name
of the song list.

Select some more songs and add each of them to the song list.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![gs-sl](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Install/gs-sl-D.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Manage / Song List Editor__</span> </div>

Close the management window.  The song list is automatically saved.

#### Play the example playlist

Now select __Player__ in the starter window.  In the player window,
select the __Queue&nbsp;Playlist__ drop-down, and select the example
song list that you just created.

The song list will load into the player.  Select the
__Play&nbsp;/&nbsp;Pause__ button
(![b-pp](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/player-b-playpause-A.png))
to start the music playing.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![Player](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Install/gs-player-B.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Player__</span> </div>

#### More information

There is more information available here on the [wiki](Home) on many
different subjects.

##### Getting help

If you need help getting started, understanding how something in BDJ4
functions, or want to learn how to accomplish a particular goal in
BDJ4, use one of the methods in
[Getting&nbsp;Help](en-Getting%20Help).

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2024-08-27 09:20:09; BDJ4 version 4.11.6)_
