[Wiki Home](Home)

[TOC]

### Starter

The starter program is used to start the player, management and
configuration.  It also has support information, can send support
messages and can set up alternate folders.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![starter](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Starter/starter-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Starter__</span> </div>

__Profile__: Select the profile to use.  Once a button is selected,
the profile can no longer be changed.  Select _Create&nbsp;Profile_ then
_Configure_ to create a new profile.
<br>See: [Subjects&nbsp;/&nbsp;Profiles](en-Subjects-Profiles)

__Player__: Starts the BDJ4 Player.

__Manage__: Starts BDJ4 management.  Use to update the database,
manage song lists, playlists, music, and access the song editor and
audio identification.

__Configure__: Starts BDJ4 configuration.

__Support__: Opens the support display window (see below).

__Exit__: Closes all BDJ4 windows and exits the application.

##### Starter Actions Menu

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![starter-menu](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Starter/starter-menu-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Starter / Actions Menu__</span> </div>

The _Actions_ menu has the following selections:

__Stop All BDJ4 Processes__: This selection is used in case there is a
problem with BDJ4 (a lock-up, a program that won't exit), and you need
to stop BDJ4 completely.  After selecting this item, wait until the
menu is no longer displayed on the screen.

__Delete Profile__: Select a profile to delete, then select
__Delete&nbsp;Profile__ to delete it.  The first profile cannot be
deleted.
<br>See: [Subjects&nbsp;/&nbsp;Profiles](en-Subjects-Profiles)

__Create Shortcut for Profile__: Select a profile, then choose this
menu selection to create a shortcut for the profile (Linux and Windows
only).

__Set Up Alternate Folder__: Starts the alternate installer. Alternate
folders are used to create another BDJ4 installation with a separate
database.  (Linux and Windows only).

##### Support

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![starter-support](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Starter/starter-support-B.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Starter__ / Support</span> </div>

The support window lists the current installed version of BDJ4 and the
latest version that is available.

The links to download BDJ4, the wiki, the forums and support tickets
can be selected and will open in your browser.

The __Send&nbsp;Support&nbsp;Message__ button will open a new window
where a support message can be sent (see below).

##### Support Messages

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![starter-support-msg](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Starter/starter-support-msg-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Starter / Support / Support Message__</span> </div>

__E-Mail Address__: Enter your e-mail address so that you can receive
a reply to your support message.

__Subject__: Enter the subject of the message.

__Message__: Enter a message describing your issue.

__Attach Data Files__: When selected, your data files will be uploaded
along with the support request.  The data files are very useful for
finding problems.  If you have a problem with BDJ4, start BDJ4,
re-create the problem, then send the support message with this
checkbox selected.

__Attach Database__: When selected, a copy of your music database (not
the audio files) is uploaded along with the support request.  The
database is very useful when finding problems associated with the
audio files.

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2024-01-18 08:23:04; BDJ4 version 4.4.8)_
