[Wiki Home](Home)

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_The general tab provide settings that
affect the entire BDJ4 application._</span>

### Configure : General

__Music Folder__: The main music folder where the music is found.
See also [Update&nbsp;Database](en-Management-Update%20Database)

__Profile Name__: The name of this profile.  This name will appear in
the title of all windows.

__Profile Color__: The accent color used to identify this profile.
This appears as a block of color in the upper right corner of each
window.  Different profiles can be assigned different colors so that
the window's profile can be quickly identified.

__BPM__: The label to use for _beats&nbsp;per&nbsp;minute_ or
_measures&nbsp;per&nbsp;minute_. When set to MPM, the BPM counter will
use the time signature of the dance to select the proper default.

__Locale__: Which locale is used for the text in BDJ4.

__Startup Script__: A script that is run before the player is started.
This is automatically set for Linux installations.

__Shutdown Script__: A script that is run after the player is stopped.
This is automatically set for Linux installations.

__Audio Tags__: Selects the audio tag interface.  At this time,
only 'BDJ4 Internal' is available.

__Write Audio File Tags__: When set to __BDJ Tags Only__, only BDJ
specific tags will be updated in the audio file when a song is edited.
When set to __All Tags__, all audio file tags including BDJ specific
tags will be updated in the audio file when a song is edited.

__BallroomDJ 3 Compatible Audio File Tags__: If enabled, (and write
audio file tags is on), the audio file tags will be kept compatible
with BallroomDJ 3.

The __ACRCloud API__ information is optional and is only used for the
audio identification process within BDJ4.  If you use the audio
identification process and have registered an ACRCloud account, copy and
paste the appropriate information into the configuration.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![General](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Configuration/General-G.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Configure / General__</span> </div>

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2023-12-05 06:20:21; BDJ4 version 4.4.6)_
