[Wiki Home](Home)

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_Alternate folders are used to create an
additional BDJ4 instance with a separate database._</span>

[TOC]

### Alternate Folders

Alternate folders are an additional folder for BDJ4 that has a
separate music database from the main installation.  Alternate folders
are useful when there is a another set of music that you want to play,
but do not want mixed in with the ballroom (or other) music.  For
example, if you have ballroom music and classical music collections,
you may want to have separate databases.

To set up a different configuration with the same music database, use
a [Profile](en-Subjects-Profiles).

If multiple BDJ4 instances were installed, there would be duplication
of the executables and the different installations would not be able
to be run at the same time as they would conflict with each other.

Using alternate folders avoids this problem.  The alternate folder
installation does not duplicate the executable programs, and both the
main installation and the alternate installation can be run at the
same time if desired.

##### Setting up an Alternate Folder

In the BDJ4 starter, select __Set&nbsp;Up&nbsp;Alternate&nbsp;Folder__
from the _Actions_ menu.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![alt-starter](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/alt-starter-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Starter__</span> </div>

The alternate folder installer will start.  Enter the name of the
alternate folder.  This name will also be used for the desktop shortcut.
The path to the alternate folder will be automatically updated to
match the name.

On Windows and Linux, the path to the new installation can be modified
if desired.  On MacOS, the path cannot be changed.

When ready, select the __Install__ button.  The alternate folder will
be installed, and the desktop shortcut created.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![alt-installer](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/alt-installer-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Alternate Folder Installer__</span> </div>

##### Updating up an Alternate Folder

Any time BDJ4 is updated, all alternate folders will also be updated
(version 4.8.1).

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2024-03-31 09:17:12; BDJ4 version 4.8.1)_
