[Wiki Home](Home)

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_Announcements are used to announce an
upcoming dance._</span>

[TOC]

### Announcements

Announcements are audio files that are associated with a dance and are
turned on for a music queue or for a playlist.  The announcement
corresponding to the song's assigned dance is played before each song
starts.

Announcements are useful when a marquee cannot be displayed in the
venue, and are also helpful if the marquee is not visible by all of
the dancers.

##### Adding the Announcements to the Database

First, the announcements must be added to the BallroomDJ&nbsp;4
database.  You can record your own announcements or find pre-recorded
announcements on the internet.

Add the announcement audio file(s) to your music folder.  For the
purposes of this example, it will be assumed that the announcements
are named after the dance, and are stored in a folder named
"Announce".

Add the announcements to the BallroomDJ&nbsp;4 database using
__Manage&nbsp;/&nbsp;Update&nbsp;Database&nbsp;/&nbsp;Check&nbsp;for&nbsp;New__.
<br>(See
[Adding&nbsp;Songs&nbsp;to&nbsp;the&nbsp;Database](en-Subjects-Adding%20Songs)).

##### Associate the Announcement with a Dance

Now, using _Configure_ / _Edit&nbsp;Dances_, select the dance to edit,
select the _Announcement_ file chooser button with the folder icon and
select the announcement audio file for that dance.  If a dance does
not have an announcement assigned, no announcement will be played.
<br>(See
[Configure&nbsp;/&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;Dances](en-Configuration-Edit%20Dances)).

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![ann-edit-dance-a](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/ann-edit-dance-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Configure / Edit Dances**</span> </div>

##### Playing Announcements

The announcement audio file(s) are now configured, but will not play
unless turned on for the music queue or the playlist.

If a music queue is configured to play announcements, all songs played
in that music queue will always have the announcement for the dance
played.  Since the music queue is set to always play an announcement,
any songs that should not have an announcement should be played from a
different music queue.

If a playlist is configured to play announcements, the songs from that
playlist will have the announcement for the dance played.  One
disadvantage of this method is that any requested songs added to the
queue will not have an announcement played (as there is no playlist
associated with the song added to the queue).

##### Configuring a Music Queue to Play Announcements

In _Configure_ / _Music&nbsp;Queues_, turn on the
__Play&nbsp;Announcements__ switch.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![ann-mq-a](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/ann-mq-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Configure / Music Queues**</span> </div>

##### Configuring a Playlist to Play Announcements

In _Manage_ / _Playlist&nbsp;Management_, load the playlist to be
configured, and turn on the _Play&nbsp;Announcements_ switch.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![ann-playlist-a](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/ann-playlist-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Manage / Playlist Management**</span> </div>

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2023-01-30 12:22:54; BDJ4 version 4.0.9-beta)_
