[Wiki Home](Home)

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_A BDJ4 client audio source is used to
play songs from a remote location._</span>

[TOC]

### BDJ4 Client Audio Source

A BDJ4 client audio source can be used to play songs from a remote
BDJ4 server. The [BDJ4 Audio Server](en-Subjects-Audio%20Server)
should be set up first.

#### Configuring a BDJ4 Client

Select __Configure&nbsp;/&nbsp;Audio&nbsp;Sources__.  BDJ4 ships with
a audio source named _BDJ4_ that is set to _Off_.  For this example,
this audio source will be re-configured.  Select the _BDJ4_ audio
source in the list on the left.

Change __Mode__ to _Client_.

Change the __Name__ to your preference.
For this example, the name will be set to _bll-mac-m1_.

__Type__ is set to _BDJ4_.

The __URL__ must be set to the address of the remote computer.  This
can be _computername.local_ if the remote computer is on the local
network, it can be an IP address, or a fully qualified name.

The __Port__ must match what the server has configured.

The __User__ and __Password__ must match what the server has configured.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![aud-client-conf](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/aud-client-conf-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Configure / Audio Sources__</span> </div>

References:
<br>[Configuration / Audio Sources](en-Configuration-Audio%20Sources)
<br>[Subjects / BDJ4 Audio Server](en-Subjects-Audio%20Server)

#### Checking the Connection

Select the __Check&nbsp;Connection__ button to check the configured
connection.  The server must be accessible.  A status message will be
displayed in the top right of the window indicating success or failure.

#### Using the Client Connection

First, a playlist must be imported from the remote server.  Select
__Manage__, then select __Import&nbsp;Playlist__ from the __Import__
menu.

For __Import&nbsp;From__, use the spinbox to select the audio source.
In this example, _bll-mac-m1_, the configured audio source.

A list of available playlists will be populated, and a playlist may be
selected in the __Playlist__ drop-down.  After selecting a playlist,
the __URL__ and __New&nbsp;Song&nbsp;List&nbsp;Name__ will be populated.

If the song list already exists in BDJ4, a warning message will be displayed.

The __Check&nbsp;Connection__ button may be used to check the
client to server connection.

Select __Import__ to import the playlist from the selected audio source.

Once the playlist is imported, the playlist will be available to use
in BDJ4.  The imported songs will be available in the music manager,
song selection and requests.  The connection to the remote server must
be available to be able to play the imported songs.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![aud-client-imp-pl](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/aud-client-imp-pl-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Edit Song Lists / Import / Import Playlist__</span> </div>

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2025-06-13 05:09:27; BDJ4 version 4.15.0)_
