[Wiki Home](Home)

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_Batch editing uses the song editor to
make changes to multiple songs._</span>

[TOC]

### Batch Editing

In some situations such as renaming a dance, updating an album or
artist name, or setting some tags, you may need to change the
information for multiple songs.

Batch editing allows changes to song information for the entire
database, the songs in a playlist, a set of songs selected using the
song filter, or a selection of songs chosen manually.

##### Selecting the Songs to Edit

Select __Manage__ and __Music&nbsp;Manager__.

Select the filter button
(![filter&nbsp;songs](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/FilterSongsButton-A.png)).
<br>
(See: [Subjects&nbsp;/&nbsp;Filter&nbsp;Dialog](en-Subjects-Filter%20Dialog)).

To edit the entire database, select the __Reset__ button.

To edit a particular playlist, select a playlist in the _Playlist_
drop-down selection.  Note that for automatic and sequenced playlists,
all possible songs for the selected playlist will be listed.

To edit a filtered set of songs, select __Reset__, set your search
criteria, then select __Apply__.

In the three cases listed above, the songs to be edited are the songs
listed in the music manager.

To manually select the songs to edit, first apply any search criteria
you want. Then control-click on each song you want to edit.  When
multiple songs are selected via control-click (or shift-click), only
the selected songs will be edited, not the entire list that is
displayed.

Review the list of songs displayed or selected and make sure that
these are the songs you want to change.

##### Starting a Batch Edit

Switch to the [Song&nbsp;Editor](en-Management-Song%20Editor) tab.  In
the __Actions__ menu, select __Edit&nbsp;All__.  Certain fields (e.g.
_Title_) that may not be edited in a batch edit will be disabled.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![be-se-disabled](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/be-se-disabled-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Music Manager / Song Editor /
Disabled Fields__</span> </div>

The _Save_ button will be disabled, and an _Edit&nbsp;All_ label will
be displayed next to the _Save_ button to indicate that the song
editor is in edit all mode.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![be-se-editall-mode](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/be-se-editall-mode-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Music Manager / Song Editor / Edit
All Mode__</span> </div>

##### Setting the Song Information

In the [Song&nbsp;Editor](en-Management-Song%20Editor), change the
song information that you want changed for the selected songs.  The
changes to the fields made here will be applied to all selected songs.

Be aware for fields such as _Tags_, the entire field will be replaced,
and any existing tags will be lost.

##### Cancelling a Batch Edit

In the __Actions__ menu, select __Cancel&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;All__.

The changes made to the song will be cleared, and the song editor will
leave edit all mode.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![be-se-cancel-editall](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/be-se-cancel-editall-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Music Manager / Song Editor /
Actions Menu__</span> </div>

##### Applying a Batch Edit

In the __Actions__ menu, select __Apply&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;All__.

The changes made to the song will be applied to the entire selection
of songs, and the song editor will leave edit all mode.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![be-se-apply-editall](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/be-se-apply-editall-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Music Manager / Song Editor /
Actions Menu__</span> </div>

##### Example 1: Setting the Rating for All Songs (Entire Database)

In order to use [automatic](en-Subjects-Automatic%20Playlists) or
[sequenced](en-Subjects-Sequenced%20Playlists) playlists, the dance
rating should be set for your songs.

For the initial setup, a batch edit can be done to set your songs to
have a dance rating.

Select __Manage__, __Music&nbsp;Manager__. In this example, none of
the songs have ratings, and the batch edit will be processed for all songs.

Select the __Song&nbsp;Editor__ tab.  Select
__Actions&nbsp;/&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;All__ from the menu.

Set the _Dance&nbsp;Rating_ to _Good_.   The green change indicator for
_Dance&nbsp;Rating_ will be turned on.

Now select __Actions&nbsp;/&nbsp;Apply&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;All__ from the menu.

The change to the dance rating will be applied to all songs in the
database.

##### Example 2: Fixing an Artist Name (Selection of Songs)

For this example, suppose that some songs have the artist set to
_Michael&nbsp;Buble_, and you want to change the artist to the proper
spelling, _Michael&nbsp;Bublé_.

Select __Manage__, __Music&nbsp;Manager__. Open the filter songs
dialog using the filter button
(![filter&nbsp;songs](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/FilterSongsButton-A.png)).
Enter _michael&nbsp;b_ in the search field, and select __Apply__.

The music manager will display all songs that have _michael&nbsp;b_ in
the song information.  Now using control-click, select each song that
has the incorrect spelling for _Michael&nbsp;Buble_.  Scroll through
the list and make sure all of songs to be changed are selected and the
songs that are not be changed are not selected.

Select the __Song&nbsp;Editor__ tab.  Select
__Actions&nbsp;/&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;All__ from the menu.

Change the _Artist_ to _Michael&nbsp;Bublé_.  Select
__Apply&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;All__ from the __Actions__ menu.

Only the songs selected with control-click will be updated.

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2024-12-23 09:52:50; BDJ4 version 4.12.8)_
