[Wiki Home](Home)

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_BPM/MPM can be set for each song and is
used by the DJ to help select appropriate songs for a dance._</span>

[TOC]

### BPM & MPM

The BPM/MPM of a song can be set and used by the DJ to help determine
which songs to choose for a dance.

BPM is the beats per minute of a song.  MPM is measures per minute.

In many cases, the BPM acronym is used as bars per minutes. The
musical terms _measure_ and _bar_ are interchangeable, and BDJ4 always
uses MPM as measures per minute and BPM as beats per minutes to avoid
confusion.

In most cases ballroom music speed ranges are listed as measures per
minute.  This can also be confusing, as dances can be in 2/4&nbsp;time
(e.g. Samba, Paso Doble), 3/4&nbsp;time (e.g. Waltz) or 4/4&nbsp;time.

Some people prefer to use beats per minute, and others measures per
minute.

##### BPM/MPM Configuration

In [Configure&nbsp;/&nbsp;General](en-Configuration-General), the
__BPM__ setting can be set to _BPM_ or _MPM_. This affects the display
of the BPM/MPM of the song and which label (BPM/MPM) is displayed.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![bpm-conf-general](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/bpm-conf-general-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Configure / General__</span> </div>

For the examples below, MPM will be used.

##### Dance Configuration

In
[Configure&nbsp;/&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;Dances](en-Configuration-Edit%20Dances),
each dance has a _Time&nbsp;Signature_, a _Low&nbsp;BPM/MPM_ setting,
and a _High&nbsp;BPM/MPM_ setting.

The time signature setting is used by the
[BPM&nbsp;counter](#using-the-bpm-counter) to determine the correct
MPM for the song and for the BPM range display in the
[Song&nbsp;Editor](#song-editor) (see below).

The low and high BPM/MPM settings are only used to display the BPM/MPM
range for a dance (see [Song&nbsp;Editor](#song-editor) below).

<!-- this images is also used in Subjects/Announcements -->

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![bpm-edit-dance](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/ann-edit-dance-D.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Configure / Edit Dances__</span> </div>

##### Display Configuration

In
[Configure&nbsp;/&nbsp;Display&nbsp;Settings](en-Configuration-Display%20Settings),
BPM/MPM should be added to the _Song&nbsp;Editor_.  Choose one of the
_Song&nbsp;Editor_ columns and add BPM/MPM.

Also add BPM/MPM to the various song listings and music queues as you prefer.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![bpm-disp-settings](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/bpm-disp-settings-C.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Configure / Display Settings__</span> </div>

##### Song Editor

In the [Song&nbsp;Editor](en-Management-Song%20Editor), the BPM/MPM
can be set for the song.  Select or type in the BPM/MPM and then
select the __Save__ button to save the changes.

The images below show how the BPM/MPM entry field looks in the song
editor (for a Waltz) when the
[Configure&nbsp;/&nbsp;General](en-Configuration-General) setting is
set to MPM and when set to BPM.

The BPM/MPM range display is determined as explained in
[Dance&nbsp;Configuration](#dance-configuration) above.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![bpm-se-mpm](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/bpm-se-mpm-B.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Manage / Music Manager / Song Editor__</span> </div>

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![bpm-se-bpm](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/bpm-se-bpm-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Manage / Music Manager / Song Editor__</span> </div>

##### Using the BPM Counter

The BPM Counter can be accessed from BPM/MPM menu selection in the
__Actions__ menu of the [Song&nbsp;Editor](en-Management-Song%20Editor).

Select the song to edit in the
[Song&nbsp;Editor](en-Management-Song%20Editor), and select the play
button
(![play](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/PlayButton-A.png))
to play the song.

Click in the blue box in time with the beat.  The BPM&nbsp;Counter
will calculate the correct BPM and MPM based on the dance's time
signature and the number of beats.  Select the __Save__ button to
transfer the calculated BPM/MPM to the song editor and close the
BPM&nbsp;Counter. To reset the counter, select the __Reset__ button.

The BPM/MPM field in the song editor will be populated, but the changes
to the song must still be saved.  Select the __Save__ button in the
song editor to save the changes.

<!-- this image is re-used: see management/song-editor -->

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![se-bpm-counter](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/se-bpm-counter-C.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Manage / Music Manager / Song Editor / BPM Counter__</span> </div>

<br>__References:__
<br>[Manage&nbsp;/&nbsp;Song&nbsp;Editor](en-Management-Song%20Editor)

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2024-12-23 09:52:50; BDJ4 version 4.12.8)_
