[Wiki Home](Home)

### Changing the Name of a Dance

There are occasions when the name of a dance needs to be changed. This
happens when a typographical error has been made, or you simply just
decide that instead of _Waltz_ you want _Slow Waltz_.  Or you want to
use the native name of the dance instead of the English name.

If there are no songs that have been assigned to this dance, this is
easy. Simply add a dance with the new name, and delete the dance with
the old name.

But if there are already songs with dance set to the old name, this is
more difficult.  The batch editing facilities of BDJ4 can be used to
manage this task.

The first step is to add the new dance name.  For the purposes of this
example, _Waltz_ will be changed to _Slow&nbsp;Waltz_.  Select
__Configure__ and __Edit&nbsp;Dances__.  Select the __Add&nbsp;New__
button (![Add
New](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/AddNewButton-E.png))
to add a new dance entry.

In the new entry, change the dance name to _Slow&nbsp;Waltz_.  Switch
back and forth between the _Waltz_ and the new _Slow&nbsp;Waltz_ dance
entry, and copy the type, speed, tags, announcement (if present), MPM
and time signature settings from _Waltz_.  Do not delete _Waltz_.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![chg-dnc-edit-dnc](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/chg-dnc-edit-dnc-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Configure / Edit Dances__</span> </div>

Once finished, the _Configuration_ window can be closed.

Now the songs with their dance set to _Waltz_ must be changed. Select
__Manage__, and select the __Music&nbsp;Manager__ tab.  Select the
filter
(![Filter&nbsp;Songs](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/FilterSongsButton-A.png))
button. In the __Dance__ drop-down, select _Waltz_, then select __Apply__.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![chg-dnc-filter](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/chg-dnc-filter-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Filter Dialog__</span> </div>

In the management window, scroll through the list and verify that you
have selected the correct songs.  Before doing a batch edit, always
verify that you have the correct songs selected.

In the _Music&nbsp;Manager_, select the __Song&nbsp;Editor__ tab.
Select the __First__ button to make sure all selections will be
modified.  In the __Actions__ menu, select __Edit&nbsp;All__.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![chg-dnc-menu-edit-all](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/chg-dnc-menu-edit-all-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Song Editor / Actions / Edit All__</span> </div>

Note that the _Song&nbsp;Editor's_ _Save_ button is now disabled, and
_Edit&nbsp;All_ is now displayed next to the save button to indicate
that you are in _Edit&nbsp;All_ mode.

In the __Dance__ drop-down, select the new dance name,
_Slow&nbsp;Waltz_. The change indicator in front of _Dance_ will be
active. Make sure no other change indicators are active, as only the
dance should be changed.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![chg-dnc-se](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/chg-dnc-se-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Song Editor__</span> </div>

In the __Actions__ menu, select __Apply&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;All__.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![chg-dnc-menu-apply](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/chg-dnc-menu-apply-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Song Editor / Actions / Apply Edit All__</span> </div>

All of the selected songs will now have their _Dance_ set to
_Slow&nbsp;Waltz_.

To verify the changes, switch to the __Music&nbsp;Manager__ tab, and
use the __Dance__ drop-down in the filter dialog to verify that there
are no songs with the dance set to _Waltz_, and there are now songs
with the dance set to _Slow&nbsp;Waltz_.

Close the _Management_ window, select
__Configure__, and __Edit&nbsp;Dances__.  Select the __Waltz__ entry,
then select the __Delete__
(![Delete](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/DeleteButton-E.png))
button to remove the old dance name.

<br>__References:__
<br>[Configuration / Edit Dances](en-Configuration-Edit%20Dances)
<br>[Management / Song Editor](en-Management-Song%20Editor)
<br>[Subjects / Batch Editing](en-Subjects-Batch%20Editing)


[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2024-10-07 11:49:26; BDJ4 version 4.12.2)_
