[Wiki Home](Home)

[TOC]

### Classical Music Support

Classical music is supported by BallroomDJ&nbsp;4.  Classical music
needs to have its title set correctly, and there are other audio tags
that are useful for classical music.

There is also a unique feature in BDJ4 for classical music.

##### Classical Music Audio Tags

Classical music will use more audio tags than general music.  Some of
the audio tags that may be desired are: _Work_,
_Movement&nbsp;Number_, _Movement&nbsp;Name_, _Album&nbsp;Artist_,
_Album&nbsp;Artist&nbsp;Sort&nbsp;Order_, _Composer_,
_Composer&nbsp;Sort&nbsp;Order_, and _Conductor_.

The audio tags to be displayed in the music manager, the music queue,
the song selection and the song editor can be set in
[Configure&nbsp;/&nbsp;Display&nbsp;Settings](en-Configuration-Display%20Settings).

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![cm-conf-dispset](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/cm-conf-dispset-B.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Configure / Display Settings__</span> </div>

##### Classical Music Title

In [Configuration&nbsp;/&nbsp;General](en-Configuration-General), if
the _Use&nbsp;Work&nbsp;and&nbsp;Movement_ setting is turned on, and
if _Work_ is set, _Work_, _Movement&nbsp;Number_ and
_Movement&nbsp;Name_ will be used to generate the title of the song
when the song is saved in the song editor.  The formatting of the
title matches what iTunes would display, e.g.
_Primo&nbsp;Vere:&nbsp;I.&nbsp;Veris&nbsp;Leta&nbsp;Facies_

If the _Use&nbsp;Work&nbsp;and&nbsp;Movement_ setting is off, the
song's title may be set to what you desire.

The title for classical music should be set correctly according to the
[MusicBrainz&nbsp;Classical&nbsp;Track&nbsp;Title](https://musicbrainz.org/doc/Style/Classical/Track_Title)
guide.

Classical music should have the title set to _Work: Movement_. e.g.
_Primo&nbsp;Vere:&nbsp;Veris&nbsp;Leta&nbsp;Facies_ from
_Carl&nbsp;Orff's_ _Carmina&nbsp;Burana_.  Each movement in the work
should have the work set, not just the first movement.

Note that the MusicBrainz classical music track title guide prefers a
title that matches what is listed for the album, not one that follows
an exact format.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![cm-se](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/cm-se-B.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Song Editor__</span> </div>

##### Audio Tag Sort Order

If the corresponding sort order is set for an audio tag, then BDJ4
will sort according to the sort order value, not the display value.

For example, if the _Composer_ is set to _Carl&nbsp;Orff_, and the
display is sorted by composer, the composer would show up in the
letter _C_ section.  If the _Composer&nbsp;Sort&nbsp;Order_
is set to _Orff,&nbsp;Carl_, then the song would show up in the letter
_O_ section, and _Carl&nbsp;Orff_ would be displayed.

##### Classical Music Display

Many of the audio tags for classical music tend to be rather long.  In
the music manager, text that is too long to be displayed will be
truncated with an ellipsis at the end.

In the music manager (and music queue, etc.), mouse over the display
to see a tooltip with the full display.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![cm-mm-disp](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/cm-mm-disp-B.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Music Manager / Tooltips__</span> </div>

##### Selecting an Entire Work

BDJ4 has a unique feature to select an entire work.

Suppose you want to listen to _Beethoven's_
_Symphony&nbsp;No.&nbsp;5_.  In the Player, right-click on any
movement in the work.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![cm-play-work](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/cm-play-work-B.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Player / Selecting a Work__</span> </div>

The entire work will be selected.  Select the __Queue__ button to add
the entire work to the music queue and start your playback.

Internally, BDJ4 will prioritize the _Grouping_ tag, then the
_Work_ tag, then using the work extracted from the song title.

When using an automatic or sequenced playlist, the entire work will be
selected.
<br>See [Subjects&nbsp;/&nbsp;Grouping](en-Subjects-Grouping)

##### Sorting Classical Music

The defaults shipped with BDJ4 may not have the sort orders that you
want to use.  To add new sort orders, the data/sortopt.txt file must
be edited.  [Contact](en-Getting%20Help) the development team for help.

##### Organizing Classical Music

The defaults shipped with BDJ4 may not have the organization that you
want to use.  To add a new organization path, the data/orgopt.txt file must
be edited.  [Contact](en-Getting%20Help) the development team for help.

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2025-04-20 08:47:12; BDJ4 version 4.14.1)_
