[Wiki Home](Home)

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_Export to BDJ4 and Importing from BDJ4
can be used to transfer playlists and music from one computer to
another._</span>

[TOC]

### Export to BDJ4 / Import from BDJ4

##### Exporting song lists and audio files

In __Manage&nbsp;/&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;Song&nbsp;Lists__, load the song list
to be exported.

Select the __Export&nbsp;/&nbsp;Export&nbsp;for&nbsp;BDJ4__ menu item.
The dialog will prompt for a folder where the audio files, song list
and the database will be exported.  The selected folder should be
empty or a folder that has been previously used for an export. BDJ4
will create _data_ and _music_ folders within the selected folder.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![ei-export-dialog-A](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/ei-export-dialog-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Export / Export for BDJ4__</span> </div>

When the __Export__ button is selected, BDJ4 will process each song in
the song list.  If the song does not exist in the export database, the
export database will be updated and the audio file copied to the
export folder. If the song already exists in the export database, the
export database entry will be updated if it is older than the song's
current database entry.

More than one song list may be exported to the same export folder.

##### Importing song lists and audio files

In __Manage&nbsp;/&nbsp;Edit&nbsp;Song&nbsp;Lists__, select the
__Import&nbsp;/&nbsp;Import&nbsp;from&nbsp;BDJ4__ menu item. The dialog
will prompt for a folder.  The selected folder must have been created
by a prior __Export&nbsp;for&nbsp;BDJ4__.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![ei-import-dialog-A](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/ei-import-dialog-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Import / Import from BDJ4__</span> </div>

Select the song list to import.  The
_New&nbsp;Song&nbsp;List&nbsp;Name_ will be pre-filled with the
imported song list name. A new song list name may be entered. If the
song list already exists, a status message will be displayed. If the
song list already exists, it will be overwritten on import.

Select the __Import__ button to start the import process.   The audio
file will only be copied if it does not already exist.  The database
entry will be added if it is new, or updated if the import database
entry is newer.

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2023-12-05 06:20:21; BDJ4 version 4.4.6)_
