[Wiki Home](Home)

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_The song selection, request and music
manager song listings can be filtered to display selected songs._</span>

### Filter Dialog

The filter dialog is available in the song selection, request and
music manager song listings by selecting the __Filters__ button.

The following filters are available:

* Playlist (Music Manager only)
* Sort by
* Search
* Genre
* Dance
* Dance Rating
* Dance Level
* Status
* Favorite
* Playable Status

The Genre, Dance Level, Status, Favorite and Playable Status filters
are not displayed in the default configuration.  These can be turned
on in [Filter&nbsp;Display](en-Configuration-Filter%20Display).

After selecting the filters to be applied, select the __Apply__ button
to update the song listing.

Selecting __Reset__ will reset the filters back to their defaults and
update the song listing.

The _Request_ song listing will always set the _Playable&nbsp;Status_
filter on.  If the [status](en-Configuration-Edit%20Status) field is
not in use, this has no effect, as all songs are set to be playable.

__Playlist__: Only available in the music manager.  Selecting a
playlist will filter the song listing based on the type of playlist
and the playlist settings.  Selecting a song list will only show the
songs in the song list.  Selecting an automatic or sequenced playlist
will show all songs that could be played by the selected playlist.
When a playlist is selected, all other filters are disabled.

__Sort by__: Allows selection of what sort order to apply to the song
listing.

__Search__: Searches the title, artist, album artist, notes, keyword,
tags, album, composer and conductor for the specified text. The search
is not case sensitive.

__Genre__: Matches the selected genre (not displayed in default
configuration).

__Dance__: Matches the selected dance.

__Dance Rating__: Matches any song with rating at the selected level
or better.

__Dance Level__: Matches the selected dance level (not displayed in
default configuration).

__Status__: Matches the selected status (not displayed in default
configuration).

__Favorite__: Matches the selected favorite setting (not displayed in
default configuration).

__Playable Status__: Matches any song with a
[status](en-Configuration-Edit%20Status) that has the _Play?_ checkbox
turned on (not displayed in default configuration).

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![filter-norm](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/filter-norm-B.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Filter Dialog__</span></div>

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![filter-pl](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/filter-pl-B.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Filter Dialog - Playlist Selected__</span></div>

[Wiki Home](Home)

<br>_(Updated 2023-05-20 10:40:51; BDJ4 version 4.3.2.3)_
