[Wiki Home](Home)

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_Each music queue can be configured with
its own playback settings._</span>

[TOC]

### Music Queues

Each music queue can have the fade-in time, the fade-out time, the gap
between songs, the maximum play time, and the stop-at time configured.

In addition, each music queue can be set to pause each song, play
announcements, to play when the song is queued, and to show the queue
dance buttons.

Up to four music queues may be configured.

The music queue configuration options allow outstanding flexibility in
BallroomDJ&nbsp;4.

##### Displaying Music Queues in the Player

Start the player, and in the _Options_ menu, select the
_Show&nbsp;Extra&nbsp;Queues_ checkbox.

Any music queues that are configured to display will be displayed as a
notebook tab.  By default, the main music queue and _Queue B_ will
be displayed.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![musicq-disp-option-a](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/musicq-disp-option-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Player / Options**</span> </div>

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![musicq-tabs-a](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/musicq-tabs-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Player : Music Queue Tabs**</span> </div>

##### Configuring Music Queues

The music queues are configured in
_Configure&nbsp;/&nbsp;Player&nbsp;Queues_.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![musicq-conf-a](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/musicq-conf-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Configure / Player Queues**</span> </div>

If the ___Active___ switch is off, the music queue inherits its
configuration from the main music queue.  There is no need to copy the
configuration from the main music queue or to make sure music queues
with the _Active_ switch off are updated when the main music queue
configuration is changed.

By default, _Queue&nbsp;B_ is set with the _Active_ switch off, so it
will have the same configuration as the main music queue.

The ___Display___ switch should be turned on if you want the music
queue to display in the player.  By default, _Queue&nbsp;B_ is
displayed, and _Queue&nbsp;C_ and _Queue&nbsp;D_ are not displayed.

The ___Queue&nbsp;Name___ can be changed to indicate what you use the
music queue for.

To configure a music queue with different settings than the main music
queue, turn on the _Active_ switch.  Then the fade-in time, fade-out
time, gap between songs, maximum play time and stop-at time can be
configured.

If the ___Stop&nbsp;At___ time is set, the music will stop playing at
that time.  After the music stops, more songs may be queued, but it is
recommended that a second music queue be configured without no
_Stop&nbsp;At_ time set for situations (special parties, showcases)
where the music will play past the usual stop-at time. Note that a
playlist may also be configured with a stop-at time.

The ___Pause&nbsp;Each&nbsp;Song___ switch is used for showcases and
other situations where more control is needed over when the song will
play.

The ___Play&nbsp;Announcements___ switch will enable announcements for
all songs played with this music queue.

The ___Play&nbsp;When&nbsp;Queued___ and
___Show&nbsp;Queue&nbsp;Dance&nbsp;Buttons___ are generally used for
teaching.  See the example below for a music queue set up for teaching.

See also:
<br>[Configuration / Player Queues](en-Configuration-Player%20Queues)
<br>[Management / Playlist Management](en-Management-Playlist%20Management)

##### Example: Setting up a Music Queue for Teaching

One possible setup for a music queue used for teaching could have the
fade-out time set to one second, the gap set to 0.5 seconds and the
maximum play time in this example is set high so that the entire song
will play.  The name of the music queue is set to "Teach".

The ___Play&nbsp;When&nbsp;Queued___ and
___Show&nbsp;Queue&nbsp;Dance&nbsp;Buttons___ switches are turned on.
___Pause&nbsp;Each&nbsp;Song___ and ___Play&nbsp;Announcements___ are off.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![musicq-tabs-teach-a](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/musicq-tabs-teach-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Player : Music Queues**</span> </div>

As the queue dance buttons will be active, it is easy to quickly
select a dance using the _Queue&nbsp;Dance_ button (or five dances
with the _Queue&nbsp;5_ button) to add it to the queue (the song is
chosen at random) and start it playing. ___\[Note that there is a
special playlist named QueueDance (Nederlands: wachtrijendans) that
controls what songs are added to the queue by the queue dance
buttons\]___.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![musicq-conf-teach-a](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/musicq-conf-teach-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Configure / Player Queues**</span> </div>

##### Using Music Queues in the Player



See also:
<br>[Playing a Mixer](en-HowTo-Playing%20a%20Mixer)
<br>[Running a Showcase](en-HowTo-Running%20a%20Showcase)

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2023-01-29 07:15:00; BDJ4 version 4.0.9-beta)_
