[Wiki Home](Home)

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_The audio files on your computer may be
renamed either manually or automatically to suit your needs._</span>

[TOC]

### Organizing Music

The audio files on your computer may be renamed to match the
organization that you want.

The renaming can be done manually when you prefer by using
_Database&nbsp;Update&nbsp;/&nbsp;Reorganize_, or by using the
_Auto&nbsp;Organize_ switch in the configuration.

###### Configuring the Organization Path

In [Configure&nbsp;/&nbsp;Organization](en-Configuration-Organization),
set the organization path to match your setup.

Note that there is only a small set of organization paths that ship
with BallroomDJ&nbsp;4 by default, but many more can be configured.

If the organization path you want is not listed in the drop-down
selection, the data/orgopt.txt file can be modified to include the
organization path that you want.  This must be done manually using a
text editor. [Contact the BDJ4 development team](Getting%20Help) for
help.

###### Manually Renaming the Audio Files

Once the organization path has been set to your satisfaction, open the
management screen and select __Update Database__.  Select
__Reorganize__ in the __Action__ selection.  Select the __Start__
button.

After the reorganization is complete, exit BDJ4 and restart BDJ4 to
ensure the database is reloaded.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![org-music-reorg](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/org-music-reorg-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Manage / Update Database / Reorganize__</span> </div>

###### Automatic Organization

In [Configuration&nbsp;/&nbsp;Organization](en-Configuration-Organization),
If the _Auto&nbsp;Organize_ switch is on, your audio files will
automatically be renamed when using
_Update&nbsp;Database&nbsp;/&nbsp;Check&nbsp;for&nbsp;New_, and when
song data is changed, for example when using the
[Song&nbsp;Editor](en-Management-Song%20Editor) or
[Audio&nbsp;Identification](en-Management-Audio%20Identification).

The _Database&nbsp;Update&nbsp;/&nbsp;Reorganize_ function should be
run once, as auto-organization will not rename existing audio files.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![org-music-conf-A](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/org-music-conf-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Configure / Organization__</span> </div>

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2024-01-18 08:30:17; BDJ4 version 4.4.8)_
