[Wiki Home](Home)

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_Profiles are used to create a different
configuration using the same music database._</span>

[TOC]

### Profiles

A profile is used when a different BDJ4 configuration is desired.

Some configuration profiles could be for teaching, for use with
headphones, for regular DJ work, or for ballroom dance parties.

##### Creating a New Profile

Start BDJ4, then select __Create&nbsp;Profile__ in the __Profile__
selection.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![profile-create](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/profile-create-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Starter / Create Profile**</span> </div>

Select __Configure__.

In the __General__ tab in the configuration, there are two fields
related to profiles.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![profile-setup](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/profile-setup-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Configure / General (profile)**</span> </div>

__Profile Name__: The profile name will appear in the profile
selection of the starter window and will display in the title bar of
each window.

__Profile Color__: When a profile is first created, a new profile
color will be selected.  A small box using the profile color is
displayed in the top right corner of each window for quick
identification of which profile is in use.  Select the color button
to choose a new color for the new profile.

Close the configuration window and re-start BDJ4.

After restart, the starter window will show the new profile names
in the profile selection along with the selected profile colors.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![profile-new](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/profile-new-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Starter**</span> </div>

The profile order cannot be changed.  BDJ4 chooses the first empty
profile slot to create a new profile.  A maximum of 10 profiles may be
created.

##### Selecting Profiles

When BDJ4 is started, the first profile will automatically be selected.

Select the profile to use.  Once a button in the starter window has
been selected, the profile is set and may not be changed.

##### Deleting Profiles

Start BDJ4, select the profile to be deleted, then in the starter
window, select __Delete&nbsp;Profile__ from the __Actions__ menu.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![profile-delete](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/profile-delete-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Starter**</span> </div>

##### Using Multiple Profiles

Multiple profiles may be in use at the same time.  Be aware that only
the first profile that is started has control of the volume settings.

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![profile-player-sink](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Subjects/profile-player-sink-A.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">**Starter**</span> </div>



[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2023-11-25 06:20:38; BDJ4 version 4.4.5)_
