[Wiki Home](Home)

<span style="color:#4559bf;">_Removing a song renames the audio file
so that it will no longer be listed in the database._</span>

[TOC]

### Removing Songs

BDJ4 will never delete an audio file.  The song removal process will
rename the selected song using a 'delete-' prefix.  For example
_mysong.mp3_ will be renamed to _delete-mysong.mp3_.

As the song can no longer be located on the storage device, it will
not be listed in the database.

##### Removing a Song

The [music manager](Management-Music%20Manager) is used to remove
songs from the database.  Select the song to be removed, then select
__Remove&nbsp;Song__ in the __Actions__ menu.

<!-- image also in manage/music-manager -->

<div markdown style="margin-right: 20px; text-align: center;">
![mm-actions-menu](https://ballroomdj4.sourceforge.io/wikiimg/en/Management/mm-actions-menu-D.png)
<br><span style="color:#4559bf;">__Manage / Music Manager / Actions__</span> </div>

The song is marked to be removed.  Other than being marked for
removal, and no longer being listed in the display, no action is taken
yet. The __Undo&nbsp;Song&nbsp;Removal__ selection in the __Actions__
menu will be active and can be used to reset the songs.

##### Undoing Song Removal

The __Undo&nbsp;Song&nbsp;Removal__ selection in the __Actions__ menu
will revert all songs that have been marked for removal.  The undo
action will only be active if a song has been removed and the music
manager has not yet been closed.

##### When the Music Manager is Closed

When the music manager is closed, the final song removal processing
takes place.  Each audio file that was marked for removal is renamed
to have a 'delete-' prefix.  For example, _Sway.mp3_ will be renamed
to _delete-Sway.png_.

##### Fixing an Accidental Removal

If a song was removed, and you want to restore it after having closed
the music manager, use your file explorer to locate the audio file in
your music folder.  Rename the audio file and remove the 'delete-'
prefix.  For example rename _delete-Sway.png_ to _Sway.png_.  Be sure
to keep the original name intact.  Exit and restart BDJ4.

As the song removal process does not clear the database entry, the
song will be located and will again show up in the list of songs.

##### Cleaning up Removed Songs

Once you are certain the removed songs are correct and you do not need
them any more, use your file explorer to locate any audio files with
the 'delete-' prefix and delete them.

In the [music manager](Management-Music%20Manager), select
__Update&nbsp;Database__, select __Compact__ for the action and select
the __Start__ button.  This will remove any unused entries from the
database.

[Wiki Home](Home)
<br>_(Updated 2023-12-05 07:32:04; BDJ4 version 4.4.6)_
